**** MISC BUGS

1 (   ) If screenmode is changed so that it's a higher depth Scalos will close
and re-open screen BUT the iconify/MUI gadgets are all corrupt. It seems
as it the original SYSIHACK gadgets don't have enough bitplaces and are
showing scrambled mess mixed in with the original SYSIHACK gadget? Also
the backdrops do not get re-mapped to better colours when more are made
available :-( Maybe be an MCP problem?

2 ( X ) Dunno if this is more a 'filetypes.plugin' problem but when the
directory window is in text view mode the filetypes are not recognised
resulting in files all trying to be executed rather than using the
program which is associated with the filetype as specified in the icons
tooltype.

3 ( X ) Update the developers API docs as they are not very useful at the
moment! More examples would be nice too. And the autodoc function names
don't mirror the actual library commands!!!

4 ( X ) Using AREXX menu option causes Scalos to crash when items selected.
Current work around is to use AmigaDOS command type and launch the
scripts with the 'Rx' command.


6 (   ) The WBLauncher doesn't free all memory.  About 60 bytes left allocated.

7 (   ) WBStartup runner is syncron and locks if any program does not return


**** WINDOW BUGS

11 (   ) I use the middle mouse button to move the windows contents around. When
I let go of the MMB and move the pointer the window bitmap jumps to the
location of the current mouse pointer rather than the place which I let
go of the MMB. It only does this if I move the mouse relatively quick
but is still annoying as I like to move the window bitmap around and
click on icons when navigating my hard drive.  Probably a task priority
conflict between Scalos_Window_Task and Input.device

13 (   ) If I change a directory window to 'view by text' Scalos seems to assume
I want to view any nested directories also in the same view mode no
matter what they were snapshot as.

14 (   ) Bug or not? Open a directory window from a floppy disk (or removable
media) and then open a sub-directory window. Iconify the root directory
window and REMOVE the floppy disk. Then select 'Open Parent' from the
sub-directory window pop-up menu. The iconified window does not pop-up
into view. However it DOES pop into view when the disk is re-inserted
and the menu option re-selected. Can't decide if this is a bug or not.
Quite a lot of the time it causes the common 'Scalos_Window_Task'
recoverable error.

15 (   ) Open a directory window. Reduce its size with the zip gadget. Now
iconify it. Un-iconify it and it returns to the previous window size,
i.e. zipped up small. Now click on the zip gadget to return it to it's
original size. OOOPS! It doesn't - it expands to full screen size.
Naughty :-) Weird?!  And how or why did I find this... :o)  Check
wd_MaxWidth and wd_MaxHeight fields in Window structure are filled
correctly after un-iconifying

18 (   ) When many many Scalos windows are opened the pop-up menu for the window
becomes VERY slow and un-responsive when the Snapshot/Show/Viewby
options are selected (the ones with sub-menus).  Maybe a popupmenu.library bug?

19 ( X ) Leave Out / Put away , works ok when "View by Icon" but when
"View by Text" Leaveing out , puts the image on the Workbench but does
not remove it from the dir Putting away, does not remove it from
Workbench. Then ,,, Workbench Lock up :( (pop up infos still works but i
cannot close windows ect). different behavior with "Auto remove icons"
off now when putting away the icon on the Workbench goes and the icons
home window refreshes but the file is not visible untill i "Update"

20 ( X ) scalos_window_task didn't like workbench trying to close on it after
a CloseWorkbench() earlier with some other windows open

21 ( X ) Forcing an icon window update sends Scalos_Window_Task crazy
(LONG-READs), seems to do a few hits at intervals until reboot. The
attempted LONG-READS are all to the same address (in this test case
0032001E). Also then seemed to effect CON: and make that normally well
behaved task to cause hits (WORD-READs).


**** COPYING & ICONS BUGS

23 (   ) When selecting the 'Copy' option from the disk icon pop-up menu it will
not just launch a diskcopy. Instead it tells me to select it from the
'icons/copy' menu option!

24 (   ) Disk icons hang-off the bottom or right side of the Scalos desktop until
a refresh is done. This appears to be caused when the snapshot of an
icon does not fit properly into a different screen resolution.

26 ( X ) When a program is copied into another directory BUT a directory of the
same name exists in it, the copy half works. Basically the icon of the
file to be copied gets copied. I think (this is personal opinion now)
that the icon should not be copied over if it was being copied as the
package (i.e. the executable and icon). However if (in text view mode)
just the icon is dragged over then this should be okay. Hope I explained
that well?!?

27 (   ) When a selection of icons are dragged memory loss occurs! Memory loss occurs
of 18160 bytes every time when I drag the SAME group of icons, however I get
different values for different groups of icons being dragged.

28 (   ) Add SCALOS_NODRAG to a icons tooltypes and you can't drag the icon, but
you can drag it to the backdrop, then you can drag it back to original
window in a new position. And seeing as it is suppost to be NODRAG why
am I able to actually move the icon image in the first place?

29 ( X ) If I drag a device icon into another directory window it will copy
everything from the device into a directory of that name. But if I stop
it during the copying and then re-drag the device icon into the
directory window again nothing happens. No attempt is made to copy ANY
files nor does a requester pop-up asking if files should be replaced
etc.

31 ( X ) The CD0 default device icons take priority of any existing
icons on the media in the specified device. Make it possible to select
which has priority in the main Scalos prefs so that CDs without an Amiga
specific icon will still show up with a nice icon but at the same time
Amiga CDs will have their own correctly snapshotted icon displayed.

32 ( X ) def_iconify is ALWAYS read from env:sys/ no matter what path
is set in the prefs


**** DISKS BUGS

33 (   ) When the disks icons are locked, and some new device are mounting (ie.
CDrom by Cachecdfs), these icons are rearanged and loose the original
position. Note, the CD media icon has no SCALOS_NODRAG tooltype.

34 ( X ) If a disk is write protected and you try to drag files
onto a left-out directory (of a non-write protected drive), it complains
that the source disk is write protected.. Why is it trying to write to the
source disk?

35 (   ) If I drag a '????' device icon (like when a PC disk is in DF0) onto
another device icon the task "Scalos_Drag&Drop" causes an Enforcer hit
according to Cyberguard whilst starting up the diskcopy program. No
crash or reboot happens though which makes a nice change ;^)
