Last updated: 25-May-2001

ADDITIONAL FEATURES --- - - -- - ---------------- - - - - -------

delete.module:
When deleting and the object (directory/file) is in use, add a retry
option to requester along with the 'skip' and 'cancel' buttons.

Make the 'clean-up' option for windows like the "IconAlign" proggy by
Oliver Knorr (olk@johann.nbg.sub.org) which makes the icons aligned by
their base so all filenames are lined up rather than a mess as is
produced with the standard WB style clean-up process. Currently the
proggy by Oliver can't be used as a replacment in the Scalos menu
because it needs names of icons rather than just a directory path. At
the moment some icons overlap when they are being cleaned up, whilst
others hang outside the screen area.

Configurable window drag bar gadgets (as found in PowerWindows). These
can be associated with functions in the screen menu such as toggle
between show all files and toggle between icon/text view mode. Make it
possible for buttons to be of image or text type.

In the menu editor make the keyboard short-cut key gadget like the
hotkey scanner in MCP. So that it's possible to assign control keys to
menu options - such as RETURN to toggle between show all files etc. The
MUI custom class 'popxxx' has this feature for PopHotkey ... maybe use
this?

When files are copied from a directory in view-by-text mode ask user if
the associated icons should be copied. At the moment it just does it
without asking. Add an option in the main Scalos prefs to select wether
it should be transparent or the user should be consulted first.

Currently Scalos has the remove icon border feature but Birdie goes one
better. It includes a fast flood fill which replaces all the grey colour
around the outside of STANDARD icons with the transparent colour. I
understand NewIcons does this FOR NewIcons but standard Amiga icons look
stupid with no border and a big grey block for a background. For example
the Aminet or Amiga Developer CD icons... they look silly with just the
border missing.

Replace the standard Scalos 'Quit' option with a closedown/reboot/cancel
requester which is slightly more useful than a requester saying you
can't quit because of the open-count. Also make it go through all AREXX
ports and send a QUIT message to try and close down as many programs as
possible. Maybe also send CTRL-C signals to other programs. If the
application is good it will put up a requester asking to save work etc.
Would make the whole system feel more integrated too :-)

Make long filenames under icons get split up over multiple lines as in
Windows95.

Make Scalos search in windows files and display the icon stored
internally? Dunno if this would be to slooooowwww or not?? Maybe extract
the icon for it and save the image as a standard Amiga #?.info file?
Could be more suited to the programmers of the 'information.module'

Make the copying window text gadgets into progress bars. One bar for the
current file and another for the total files copied progress. Add an
abort button to stop the copying process. Add a check to see if
destination file exists and is of a newer version (via version string).
If they seem the same then pop-up a requester asking what to do. Add an
option in Scalos prefs to override all this and ALWAYS copy over old
files.

Filetype sensitive menus would be a great addition. As found in Dopus
they would have menu items relevant to the type of file you have
selected. Don't know if this would be part of the filetypes.plugin or a
seperate system in itself?

When double clicking on a file and the 'execute command' window pops up
make it automatically add quotes around filenames that have spaces in
them.

When listing a directory in text mode make it possible to select one
file then whilst holding down a shift key (or middle mouse button?) a
second file can be selected which would then select all files inbetween
them - making it a multiple select. But then make it possible to
un-select certain files whilst holding down the control key. This sort
of operation is found in Windows3.1 File Manager.

Add the possability to select an icon by clicking on its text label. And
if the label gets a double click it should turn into a string gadget so
that the file can be renamed.

Integrate the 'ARChandler' as found on Aminet better. At the moment it
will not work when windows are shown as icons. I think it's a conflict
with the filetypes.plugin ??

When ANY window on the Scalos screen is moved or re-sized display the
co-ordinate of it's top left hand corner for moving OR width and height
when resizing the window. I got this idea from UNIX.

When a window is re-sized to be as small as possible and the mouse
button is lifted, auto-iconify the window.

Whilst reading a directory and multitasking have a spinning arrow in
corner of window drag bar.

Clicking on a directory window zip gadgets shrinks to titlebar size.

When an icon is dragged onto another device/directory the window will
spring open without clicking. The icon can then be dragged through the
heirachy until the destination found. When mouse is moved outside the
window, the window will snap shut. Allowing you to continue to the
desired destination. When the icon is finally dropped all windows before
the destination will automatically close - except the destination window
that the icon was placed in.

Spring loaded folders By clicking 1 and a half times on an icon to
activate it; you can quickly navigate

Option to turn icons in to buttons, so one mouse click will select them.

When a directory window is dragged to the bottom of screen it turns into
a titlebar/button along the bottom of the screen. Clicking on the
button/titlebar will make the window pop-up whilst remaining stuck to
the bottom of the screen. Dragging an icon out of pop-up window will
make the window close back to the titlebar at the bottom of the screen.
When an icon is dragged onto the titlebar, the window will pop-up whilst
staying locked to the bottom of screen. To free a window from the bottom
drag it away fromthe bottom of the screen.

Definition of an icon 'zone' on the desktop. That way you can specifiy
where device icons, left out icons, application icons etc. are placed to
avoid them from going behind backdrop windows on the Scalos desktop.
These ares that are defined could then be used to generate
lighter/darker boxed areas on the current backdrop pattern to show the
area (user configurable).

An option to centre a backdrop picture and fill the border with a solid
colour rather than tiling. This is allowed by the newer FastIPrefs and
would be nice in Scalos too :)

In pop-up menus have images showing the kb short-cuts, radio buttons and
checkmarks like in standard pull down menu.  just needs some tags setting
as detailed in the latest popupmenu.library archive.

When we use a lot of backgrounds, the possibility of change the color of
desired icon text. Why? What do you do if background on the desktop will
be dark and in windows bright ?

When viewing a directory in text mode clicking on a column header more than
once will alternate the sorting direction.

in a folder/drawers icon have a tooltype, say SCALOS_EXECUTE, which can
be given a script (arexx?) to run every time the window is opened. maybe
two scripts, one for open and one for close of the directory window?