/************************************************************************
 *									*
 *		    Copyright (c) 1987, David B. Wecker			*
 *			    All Rights Reserved				*
 *									*
 * This file is part of DBW_Render					*
 *									*
 * DBW_Render is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but	*
 * WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY. No author or distributor accepts		*
 * responsibility to anyone for the consequences of using it or for	*
 * whether it serves any particular purpose or works at all, unless	*
 * he says so in writing. Refer to the DBW_Render General Public	*
 * License for full details.						*
 *									*
 * Everyone is granted permission to copy, modify and redistribute	*
 * DBW_Render, but only under the conditions described in the		*
 * DBW_Render General Public License. A copy of this license is		*
 * supposed to have been given to you along with DBW_Render so you	*
 * can know your rights and responsibilities. It should be in a file	*
 * named COPYING. Among other things, the copyright notice and this	*
 * notice must be preserved on all copies.				*
 ************************************************************************/

 Sections
 ~~~~~~~~
    Announcement	- announcement of software availability
    Included		- what's in the package
    Background Info	- what is this package?
    Running RAY		- how to run the ray tracer
    Running DISPLAY	- how to run the display program
    Creating a .DAT file- what goes into the input file (the hardest part)
    Source file info	- how to rebuild the package

 Announcement
 ~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you liked the ray traced images previously distributed... you're
going to LOVE DBW_Render. This package is a FULL re-implementation of the Ray
Tracer that I've been using on VAXen to create all those images. By adding
AI-heuristics, elapsed time to compute an image is orders of magnitude faster
than a VAX-780.

 Included:
 ~~~~~~~~~
	RAY	- ray tracing program
	DISPLAY	- display program for RAY's output
	*.DAT	- sample input files
	*.c	- all C sources for the package
	*.h	- all C include files for the package
	RAY.TXT	- full documentation for the package
	COPYING - General License Agreement

Please read the General License Agreement (file: COPYING) before proceeding.

 Background Information
 ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~
The DBW_Render package uses an algorithm called Distributed Ray Tracing.
In addition to neatly solving the hidden surface problem, ray tracing
(in general) affords the opportunity for doing excellent (that is,
highly realistic) shading and illumination calculations.

This package is written in C and runs on any Windows system. The RAY
program knows how to create images composed of four primitive geometric
objects: spheres, parallelograms, triangles, and flat circular rings
(disks with holes in them). Some of the features of the program are:

	Determination of correct shadows cast by arbitrarily shaped objects,
	onto arbitrarily shaped objects, due to arbitrarily placed light
	sources.

	Diffuse and specular reflections (with arbitrary levels of gloss or
	polish).  Rudimentary modeling of object-to-object diffusely 
        reflected light is also implemented, that among other things 
        accurately simulates color bleed effects from adjacent contrasting 
        colored objects.

	Mirror reflections, including varying levels of mirror smoothness
	or perfection.

	Refraction and translucency (which is akin to variable microscopic
	smoothness, like the surface of etched glass).

	Two types of light sources: purely directional (parallel rays from
	infinity) of constant intensity, and spherical sources (like light
	bulbs, which cast penumbral shadows as a function of radius and
	distance) where intensity is determined by the inverse square law.

	Photographic depth-of-field.  That is, the virtual camera may be
	focused on a particular object in the scene, and the virtual
	camera's aperture can be manipulated to affect the sharpness of
	foreground and background objects.

	Solid texturing.  Normally, a particular object (say a sphere) is
	considered to have constant properties (like color) over the entire
	surface of the object, often resulting in fake looking objects.
	Solid texturing is a way to algorithmically change the surface
	properties of an object (thus the entire surface area is no longer of
	constant nature) to try and model some real world material.
	Currently the program has built in rules for modelling wood, marble,
	bricks, snow covered scenes, water (with arbitrary wave sources),
	plus more abstract things like color blend functions.

	Fractals.  The program implements what's known as recursive triangle
	subdivision, which creates all manners of natural looking surface
	shapes (like broken rock, mountains, etc.).  The character of the
	fractal surface (degree of detail, roughness, etc.) is controlled by
	parameters fed to the program.

	AI heuristics to complete computation of a scene within a user
	specified length of time.

When the RAY program runs, it reads a sort of command file, that contains a
geometric description of the scene to be rendered, plus desired global 
lighting conditions, camera parameters, etc.  Then the program computes for 
a long time, writing each scan line to disk as it computes it. The format of
a scanline (in the .TMP) file is:

	<line  number>	-   4 bytes long
	<red   pixels>	- 320 bytes long (7 bits per pixel)
	<green pixels>	- 320 bytes long
	<blue  pixels>  - 320 bytes long

For an entire screen (600 scan lines) this file is 1,452,024 bytes. A second
program is run (DISPLAY) to display the output, and optionally save it as a
PNG image file.

In all, the DBW_Render package represents about 4000 lines of C code. 
It is largely based on original algorithms for the VAX by Tom Dahl and
Tone Engel at Digital Equipment Corporation. The AMIGA version has taken
several months to create.

 Running RAY
 ~~~~~~~~~~~

REMINDER:	BEFORE RUNNING ANYTHING MAKE SURE YOU BACKUP THIS DISK!!!

Once you have an input file (described below in the "Creating a .DAT file"
section) you can run the ray tracer. Remember that the output of the
Ray Tracer (for a full screen) will be over a megabyte in length, so make
sure you have enough free space on the disk you are running on.

If you have a file called GLASS.DAT for input, you can type:

	> ray glass

The program will start running. All of the options are in the .DAT file.
See the file GLASS.DAT (distributed with the package) for an example.
As the program runs, it will write to the file GLASS.TMP. If you want
different names for the input and output files, then run the program with
no parameters:

	> ray

at which point you will be prompted for the input file:

	Scene description file?

to which you could answer GLASS.DAT. The program will then ask for the
name of the output file:

	File name to save picture (.tmp)?

to which you could answer GLASS.TMP

The program will now compute the picture. Note that 4 extra scan lines
before and after your scene are ALWAYS computed, so if you told the program
to do a full screen (command "& 0 600" in the command file) you will notice
that the program will start at scan line -4 and will and at scan line 603.
This is due to one requirement of the AI-heuristics to fill a scan line cache
before output can occur.

When the program finishes, it will give you a bunch of statistics about
the picture. One of the most interesting is the number of pixels GUESSED as
opposed to the number of pixels COMPUTED. This will give you and idea of how
high a quality output to expect (0 guessed = perfect). These numbers are
affected by the amount of time you give the program to compute the
picture in ("R" command in the command file).

 Running DISPLAY
 ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~
After RAY has completed, the output .TMP file (or files) may be viewed with
DISPLAY.  Multiple files may be given to DISPLAY for several reasons:

	1) The machine crashed and so you have one partial file and another
	   that has the rest of the scan lines in it.

	2) You decided to do the picture in strips and have a seperate file
	   for each strip.

	3) You did the entire picture, but there are blurry scan lines around
	   complex objects (like light sources) because you didn't give it
	   enough time... so you recomputed the bad sections allowing more
	   time.

These will become clearer as we do the examples. To run the program, type:

	> display glass

this will open file GLASS.TMP (which was output from RAY), open a window
and show the generated image.

If the SAVE button is clicked, you will be prompted for a file name to save
the image as a PNG image file.

If we had several input files, we could type:

	> display glass1 glass2 glass

In this example we are using multiple input files. The program will ALWAYS
use scanlines from files earlier in the command line (if possible). So for
example, GLASS.TMP contains a complete picture. GLASS1.TMP and GLASS2.TMP
contain scanlines around the light sources (that are blurry in GLASS.TMP)
but with a higher resolution of 24 hours (so that they're much better).

 Creating a .DAT file
 ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~
Okay, now the hard part: the contents of the script input file.  The
file is a standard ASCII text file, with each line forming a separate
object or command to RAY.  The lines begin with a command character
(which is CASE SENSITIVE).  The command characters are:

R   Set resolution (optional, if missing, program will default to 12.0 hours)
D   Set the overall width and height of the image, in pixels
N   Global index of refraction (optional, default = 1.0)
Z   Produce 2D histogram, rather than true image (default true image)
a   Set overriding ambient proportion factor (default not overridden)
A   Set antialiasing parameters (default no antialiasing)
F   Set lens focus and aperture for depth of field (default infinite depth)
M   Set global diffuse lighting parameters (default off)
&   Define scan-line region of image to generate
*,! comment, ignored
b   Set background color
w   Define a wave source
g   Define a color blend texture
n   Define a snowfall texture
k   Define a 3D checkerboard texture
H   Set global haze parameters (default no haze)
f   Define fractal surface parameters
m   Define a marble texture
d   Define a wood texture
e   Set the eye (camera) view parameters
l   Define a directional light source
L   Define a spherical light source
{   Start an extent
}   Terminate an extent
s   Specify a spherical object
t   Specify a planar triangular object
x   Specify a fractal triangular object
q   Specify a planar paralleligram object
r   Specify a planar ring (annular) object

First, all color values consist of three numbers that range from 0 to 1.
The color components are specified BLUE, GREEN, RED.

All position/direction values are three numbers ranging in whatever numbering
system you want.  The numbers are X, Y, Z order.  Assuming you are
looking into the screen in the negative Z direction, positive X is to
the right, positive Y is up, and positive Z is out from the screen.

Okay, on to the specifics of the parameters that each command character
requires.  First are listed all the general (environmental) commands, then 
are listed the commands that create objects to be rendered in the scene.

		Global index of refraction (optional, default = 1.0)
N INDEX
    This single value is taken to be the index of refraction of "the
    air", or put another way of the space between and outside of all
    objects.

		Set resolution (optional, default = 12.0 hours)
R RESOLUTION
    The RESOLUTION value controls the MAXIMUM amount of time that a full
    screen (400 scanlines) is allowed to take. This number should typically
    be between 1.0 and 30.0 hours. The more time you give the program the
    better the picture will be that you get.

		Set width and height (optional, default = 800X600)
D WIDTH HEIGHT
    WIDTH and HEIGHT give the width and height of the image to be generated,
    in pixels.

		Produce 2D histogram, rather than true image
Z FLAG
    Normally, the contents of the .TMP file that the ray tracer produces
    is a binary pixel version of the described scene.  However, for the
    purposes of doing performance tuning of an antialiased scene, you can
    include the command "Z 1" in the script file.  If done, the image file
    that the ray tracer generates will not be the color scene that it 
    normally is, but instead will be a sort of 2D histogram of how much 
    computation each pixel in the scene consumed, displayed as a gray scale
    (the brighter the pixel, the more computation).  Note that this command 
    is only meaningfull if non-default values for the "A" command have been
    used.  By default, basically an equal amount of time is spent on each 
    pixel, (thus an image with Z set to 1 would come out a flat gray) but 
    the "A" command tells the ray tracer to concentrate on certain types of
    details in the scene to produce alias-free images.  Using the Z command 
    with a parameter of 1 will allow you to see just where the ray tracer 
    decided to spend more time, smoothing edges, etc.

		Set overriding ambient proportion factor
a FACTOR
    As described below, each object in the scene contains parameters that
    control how bright the object appears if no light is shining on it.  Thus
    you can set some objects to appear brigher when in shadow that other
    objects.  As an alternative, you can specify the "a" command with a
    parameter from 0 to 1, and this will cause the ambient color of all
    objects in the scene to be a fraction of their diffuse brightness.
    When the "a" command is used, the BGR ambient values for each object are
    ignored (but they must still be specified).  A reasonable starting point
    would be to set FACTOR from between .1 and .2.

		Set antialiasing parameters
A COUNT THRESHHOLD
    By default, the ray tracer computes one ray into the scene for each pixel
    in the image (so a 320X4000 image computes ~128K rays).  Quite often, 
    some unpleasant side effects of the digital generation process become 
    apparent in a scene generated with one ray per pixel, for example 
    diagonal lines are rendered as a sequence of discrete stairsteps -- the 
    dreaded jaggies.  Such false features are called aliasing defects.  There
    are numerous techniques devised to try to reduce the magnitude of these 
    defects, collectively referred to as the process of anti-aliasing.
    (There are many other types of aliasing defects besides jaggies.  An 
    example of another "defect" is the razor-sharp shadows that are 
    traditionally found in computer generated imagery -- real-world shadows 
    are always at least a teensy bit diffuse.)

    The COUNT parameter determines how many rays will be traced for each 
    pixel in the scene -- the more, the better, but the slower the computing.
    A good starting value is 4. What happens is that a bunch of rays (e.g. 4)
    are sent into the pixel cone at random -- they are "distributed" across 
    the horizontal and vertical dimensions.  Thus, this ray tracer is said to
    implement Distributed Ray Tracing.

    The THRESHHOLD value relates to a rather complicated feature in the ray
    tracer called Statistically Optimized Distributed Ray Tracing.  The way
    this works is that the program computes the intensities of the bunch of
    rays that are distributed into the pixel.  In this example, say there are
    four rays in the bunch.  The program computes the statistical variance of
    the four resulting intensities.  If the variance is small, the odds are
    that the portion of the scene being imaged is a smooth patch.
    Thus a good approximation to the ideal intensity of that pixel has been
    computed.  But let's say that the pixel happens to fall on a diagonal 
    edge. Some of the distributed rays will be cast to one side of the edge,
    and some of them to the other.  Thus the variance will be high.  The 
    program looks at this, and if the variance is past the THRESHHOLD value,
    will distribute another group of (in this case) four rays into the pixel.
    Then the variance of the eight rays will be examined, and the process 
    repeated until the required smoothness has been reached (or some 
    arbitrarily large number of rays have been cast, and the process halts).
    Setting THRESHHOLD to value of 1.0 or higher generally will force no 
    extra groups of rays to be cast, beyond the initial group of COUNT rays.
    Meaningfull values of THRESHHOLD generally fall in the .0001 to .1 range.

		Set lens focus and aperture for depth of field
F APERTURE FOCUS
    This command is optional; if omitted, the scene will be rendered such
    that all objects will be in perfect focus (a pin-hole camera effect).
    With this command, you can add depth-of-field effects to a scene (though
    at great computation speed degradation, as described below).
    The APERTURE parameter specifies the radius of the hypothetical lens
    in the camera that is taking the picture of the scene.  FOCUS sets the
    distance from the camera (or eye) at which objects will appear in perfect
    focus.  The magnitude of both values depends upon the coordinate system
    in use by your scene, of course, but here is an example for determining a
    reasonable camera aperture.  Say that one unit of distance represents an
    inch.  Assume you set the focus distance to 100 inches; with this scale,
    a reasonable value for aperture is 0.5 to 2.0.

    In order to achieve a good quality smooth blurring of the foreground and
    background, you will need to set the antialiasing parameters up from 
    their defaults (with the A command).  A good start would be 20 to 30 
    rays per pixel; the THRESHHOLD value doesn't matter much; it could be 
    set to 1.

		Set global diffuse lighting parameters
M COUNT NUMERATOR DENOMINATOR
    This command relates to the realistic propagation of light as it reflects
    from object to object in the scene.  Traditionally, computer lighting
    models operate such that if an object is directly visible from a light
    source, then the surface of the object is colored according to the
    material's properties, the color and strength of the light, etc.  For
    those objects or portions of objects that are not in the path of a light
    source (aka are in shadow), they are rendered black.  Well, this is
    usually artificial looking, and so a constant dim color is assigned to
    areas in shadow.  (In fact, this program has provisions for this as well,
    the ambient parameters of each object, plus the "a" command.)

    But in reality, shadows are filled in with light bounced off walls, etc.
    The M command can be employed to model this diffuse propagation of light
    from object to object.  (Sadly, once again performance suffers
    significantly if you choose to do this, since a great deal of information
    about the scene needs to be collected and analyzed to determine how the
    shadow fill-in should occur.)  How this program does this is to, for each
    pixel, sample extra rays from the surface being rendered, out into the
    scene in random directions to see what other nearby surfaces are acting
    as reflectors, etc.  The COUNT parameter controls how many samples to
    take per pixel; values from 10 on up are okay, but 100 or more are needed
    to render smooth color bleeding from surface to surface, etc.
    The NUMERATOR and DENOMINATOR derive from the recursive nature of the
    ray tracing process: in the process of calculating a ray on the surface
    being rendered, assume the ray strikes an adjacent surface.  Well, from
    THAT surface, another COUNT set of rays will ne sampled, to determine
    ITS color, etc.; thus the process exponentially generates rays that need
    to be computed.  To avoid this recursive growth, the number of sample 
    rays that are done per recursion level is scaled from the initial COUNT 
    value, according to the supplied NUMERATOR and DENOMINATOR values.  For
    example values of 1 and 2 respectively will reduce by half the number of
    samples taken at each recursion level.  Normally, even this is not a fast
    enough decay, so 1/3 or 1/4 is better, without much noticable loss in 
    resulting color fidelity.  In fact, setting NUMERATOR to 0 is not 
    unreasonable.

		Define scan-line region of image to generate
& FIRST LAST
    If this command is omitted, the entire image bitmap will be calculated
    (all 400 scan lines).   This command tells the program only to produce
    those scans from FIRST to LAST-1 inclusive.  Once done, the resulting
    fragment images can be combined into one whole image file.   In this way,
    a particularly complex scene may be distributed into a number of CPUs,
    resulting in shorter elapsed generation time. Picture merging is
    accomplished by DISPLAY).

		Set background color
b BLUE GREEN RED
    The simple color value that will be displayed if no objects are
    visible at a given point in the scene.

		Define a wave source
w CENTERX CENTERY CENTERZ  WAVELENGTH AMPLITUDE DAMP PROPAGATE
    A number of features in the program use wave sources as a basis for
    calculating various effects (most notably the production of rippled
    surfaces, such as water).  You can define up to 100 wave sources per
    scene.  There is only one "wave source table" stored by the program;
    all of the features that use waves use the same waves.
    The first three values specify the coordinate from which the concentric
    wave fronts emanate from.  WAVELENGTH sets the crest-to-crest distance
    for the wave.  The AMPLITUDE value determines, in an abstract manner,
    the height of the wave at the origin.  The height is not specified in
    normal distance units; rather it is a fixed scale frational value, in the
    approximate range of 0.1 (small, flat waves) to 0.5 (strong waves).
    The DAMP value controls the damping of successive trains of waves.  The
    value 1.0 means no damping; the waves will contine out to infinity from
    the source.  Value 0.7 means that successive crests will be 70% the 
    height of the preceeding crest.  The PROPAGATE value controls what phase
    the wave starts broadcasting at; the value ranges from 0.0 (starting at a
    crest at the origin) through 0.5 (180 degrees out of phase -- a trough)
    and back to 1.0 (a crest).  This can be used in sequenced frames to
    produce moving waves.

		Define a color blend texture
g BCOLOR GCOLOR RCOLOR  START RANGE
    Normally, an object is solidly and uniformly colored across its entire
    surface.  This command lets you define a blend function which can be
    applied to any object, in such a manner that the color of the object
    will vary as a function of altitude (Y coordinate).  For example, a
    sphere could be blue at the south pole, and yellow at the north pole,
    with the color smoothly changing in the middle.
    You can define up to ten blends per scene.
    The three COLOR values specify the target color that the surface will
    blend to with increasing Y coordinate (the initial color of the object
    at low Y coordinate values is taken from the diffuse coeficients of
    the object, as defined a ways below in the section on object properties).
    The START value defines the low-Y coordinate where blending starts;
    surface points below this Y level will be colored with the objects
    diffuse coeficients.  The blending continues from START, continuing for
    RANGE units upward.  At the level of START+RANGE, the blend would have
    saturated out at the new COLOR value.  Points above START+RANGE will
    maintain the new COLOR.  As an example, consider a sphere of radius
    100 units positioned at the origin.  If START was set to -33, and RANGE
    was set to 66, the result would be that the lower third of the sphere
    would be its base diffuse color; the middle third would gradually change
    color up until at the +33 level the color would attain the new COLOR;
    the upper third of the sphere would maintain the new COLOR.

		Define a snowfall texture
n START ALTITUDERANGE ALTFACTOR THRESHHOLD
    This texture function is similar to the above blend texture.  It is
    still under development.  This is intended to be used with the fratcal
    surface capabilities described below.  The theory is that this will
    distribute snow onto an object, the nature of which varies according to
    the local surface slope and altitude.
    START is the lower bound below which there can be no snowfall
    accumulation, even on level surfaces.  Points on the surface above the
    level of START+ALTITUDERANGE generally are solidly blanketed with snow.
    ALTFACTOR is a scaler that lets you determine how important altitude is
    in determining snow cover; value 0 means it is irrelevant (thus it is 
    just a function of local surface slope).  Values above 1.0 generally 
    result in a faster buildup of snow at the low end of the ALTITUDERANGE 
    scale.  THRESHHOLD controls when a surface will be solidly blanketed, if
    it meets the threshhold test.  Values for this parameter range from 0.0
    (at which everything from START and above will be solidly coated,
    regardless of slope) to 1.0, where coverage will be a continuous function
    of slope and altitude.  Values around .4 result in surfaces from about
    40 degrees of slope and flatter to be solidly covered.

		Define a 3D checkerboard texture
k BCOLOR GCOLOR RCOLOR  X Y Z  JUNK1 JUNK2 JUNK3
    You can define up to 10 checker textures per scene.
    This texture function determines the color of points on the surface of
    an object, using a 1- (layer), 2- (checker, column), or 3-dimensional
    (block) model.  As the points on the surface of an object are colored,
    this texture function can be used to determine whether the color of the
    point in question is the object's base diffuse color, or is a different
    specified color (controlled the three COLOR parameters to this command).
    To determine whether the surface point is inside or outside which color
    region, the X Y Z pattern size values are checked.  The X parameter
    defines the width of successive layers from left to right; Y defines the
    width of successive layers from top to bottom; Z is for front to back.
    Note that one or more X Y or Z values can be set to 0.  This will cancel
    any variation in the pattern in the corresponding dimention. For example,
    if X and Z are set to 10 but Y is 0, the effect will be of square
    vertical columns of alternating color.  If only Y were non-zero, the
    effect would be of horizontal layers of alternating color.  Setting all
    three to non-zero creates a solid 3D block pattern.  The width of the 
    layers in X Y and Z need not be the same (so you can make long flat
    blocks, for example).
    JUNK1, JUNK2, and JUNK3 are currently not used and should be set to 0.

		Set global haze parameters
H BCOLOR GCOLOR RCOLOR  DISTANCE
    If this command is omitted, the color of each pixel in the scene is not
    affected by how far the rendered surface is from the eyepoint.  By using
    this haze command, you can cause objects in the distance to be
    progressively tinted to a specified target haze color (the three COLOR
    values).  Objects that are DISTANCE units or farther from the eyepoint
    will be completely tinted or blended to the haze color and thus will
    become effectively invisible.  Objects closer than this distance will be
    continuously tinted from their true local color to the haze color, in
    a linear manner as a function of distance.

		Define fractal surface parameters
f RECURSIONLEVEL  XSCALE YSCALE ZSCALE  FINALTEXTURE
    This texture can only be applied to 'x' objects as defined below.
    The ray tracer so far only knows how to render a small set of primitive
    object shapes, one of which is the three-sided polygon (triangle).
    As described in the 'x' command below, the ray tracer does have the
    capability to algorithmically generate compound objects that are
    constructed out of large numbers of adjacent triangles forming what
    is called a stochastic surface (often thought of as a fractal surface,
    though in fact the relationship to the mathemacits of fractals is
    limited).  This command defines parameters that the ray tracer uses in
    constructing the mesh of triangular surface patches.

    You can define up to 10 fractal textures per scene.  In order to define
    a fractal surface, you must also define at least one wave source with
    the "w" command (the reason for this apparently unrelated need will be
    explained).  The general fractal construction procedure is based on
    recursive triangle subdivision, applying complex coordinate shifts when
    determining the vertices of the subdivision triangles.  You start with
    one master triangle that controls the gross size and orientation of the
    final surface.  The original triangle is split into four triangles (by
    bisecting the three sides and connecting the midpoints).  The corners of
    the new triangles are then shifted in space, and they are recursively
    subdivided in turn, to the desired level.  The RECUSIONLEVEL sets this
    depth; the higher the depth, the finer the resulting surface, but the
    slower the image will take to compute (on the order of four times with
    each successive level).  Plus larger level values require substantial
    quantities of address space to contain the generated triangle data (on
    the order of thousands of 512-byte memory pages for a level of 7,
    for example... so BE CAREFUL!).

    The X Y and ZSCALE values allow you to emphasize distortion differenly in
    the three dimensions (X and Z of 1.0, with Y of 3.0 results in three 
    times as much vertical relief as horizontal, for example).  Values of 0
    for a scale parameter cause the sub-triangles to not move in the 
    indicated dimension (X and Y of 0 will make the resulting surface 
    maintain a triangular silhouette as seen from above).

    The FINALTEXTURE value will be assigned as the texture function number
    for each of the sub-triangles (see the description of texture function
    values for objects below).  Basically, this allows you to apply a uniform
    texture to the entire fractal object: a smooth color gradiation, a
    checkerboard, etc.

    As mentioned above, to get a good rough fractal surface, you need to
    also define a small number of wave sources.  A good starting point is
    to specify five or six wave sources, whose actual XYZ coordinates are
    scattered about the scene.  Giving them different wavelenghts and
    amplitudes will increase the fluctuation in the surface.  Generally,
    the damping should be small (values of or near 1.0).  The actual manner
    in which the waves are utilized in constructing the sub triangle vertices
    is beyond convenient description; suffice it to say that there is NO
    randomness involved, and that different wave patters will produce
    markedly different fractal surfaces.  Experment.

		Define a marble texture
m BVEINCOLOR GVEINCOLOR RVEINCOLOR XSCALE TURBULENCE SQUEEZE
    You can define up to ten marble textures per scene.  This texture
    relies on your having defined at least one wave source, for reasons
    described below.

    The marble is modelled as a base substance that has intrusions of a 
    second substance into the base.  The base color is determined by the 
    diffuse coefficients for the object.  The intrusion color is specified 
    in the three VEINCOLOR parameters.  The actual color for the surface of 
    the marble object is a complex blending function of the two starting 
    colors.

    The basic formula for making the intrusions (veins) is to start with
    equally spaced vertical layers (spaced along the X axis).  The spacing is
    determined by the XSCALE parameter (good values are from 0.1 to 1).  Then
    turbulence is applied to the layers, deforming them into myriad whorls 
    and streaks, etc.  The amount of turbulence is set by the TURBULENCE 
    parameter (values from 1.0 to 3.0 are nice).  The rough thickness of the
    streaks is determined by the SQUEEZE parameter (which must be an integer
    -- no fractional component).  The value 1 means leave them normal width; 
    2 means twice as thin; 3 means four times as thin; 4 means eight times, 
    etc.  Another way to think of SQUEEZE is that it affects how fast the 
    blending occurs from the base to the vein color.

    The turbulence is controlled by (of all things) the wave sources that you
    have defined in the scene.  Unfortunately, the correspondence between a
    particular wave source and a particular turbulent result is almost
    impossible to predict (but it IS possible; there is no randomness
    involved).  All that can really be done is to give guidelines for general
    wave parameter values.  First, four or five wave sources are needed.  The
    wave centers should be well distributed around the scene. The wavelengths
    should vary amongst the source a good amount (some should be five or six
    times the wavelength of other sources).  Not much damping should be 
    applied (values from 1.0 down to 0.95 perhaps).

		Define a wood texture
d BCOLOR GCOLOR RCOLOR THICKSCALE RINGSCALE TURBULENCE SQUEEZE
    You can define up to ten wood textures per scene.  This texture
    relies on your having defined at least one wave source, just like for
    the marble textures listed above.  In fact, at this time wood is modelled
    very similarly to marble, except that where marble consists of parallel
    layers of base material, wood consists of concentric cylinders of base
    material (aligned along the Y axis).  The RINGSCALE parameter is
    analogous to XSCALE for marble; TURBULENCE and SQUEEZE are the same.
    THICKSCALE basically controls how faint or strong the grain is rendered;
    values above 1.0 enhance the grain; values less than 1.0 subdue the 
    grain.

		Set the eye (camera) view parameters
e XPOS YPOS ZPOS  XVIEW YVIEW ZVIEW  XUP YUP ZUP
    First triple sets the position of the eyepoint.  Second triple
    defines the direction (relative to that point) that the eye will
    look along to define what is visible.  The length of this vector
    determines the "wide-andle vs. telephoto" effect.  To guage what
    different lengths mean, at the tip of the VIEW vector the screen is
    projected as if it were 256 units horizontally by 170 units
    vertically.  Thus the magnitude of the numbers you choose for XYZ
    points interact with the view vector length to determine the cone
    of visibility.  The third triple is the direction you want to be
    "up"; usually 0 1 0 is what you want.

		Define a directional light source
l BLUE GREEN RED  XDIR YDIR ZDIR
    The first triple is the color and intesity of the light (1 1 1 would
    be bright white; 0.5 0 0.5 would be dim magenta).  The second triple
    is the direction from which the light is comming.  For example 1 0 0
    would mean the light is comming in straight along the X axis (from
    positive to negative).  You can have at most 100 light sources per
    scene (many light sources sloooows things down -- two is
    reasonable!).

		Define a spherical light source
l BLUE GREEN RED  XCENTER YCENTER ZCENTER  DISTANCESCALE  RADIUS
    The first triple is the color and base intensity of the light, just as
    for directional light sources.  The second triple is the XYZ coordionate
    of the center of the spherical light source; it can be anywhere inside
    or outside of the visible scene.  (Note that if the center is within the
    scene, it is not a visible object per-se.  For example, if you wanted a
    lightbulb, you would place the spherical light source where you wanted
    it, and also place a transparent sphere at the same coordinates and with
    the same radius.)  The DISTANCESCALE relates to the inverse-square law
    with which the brightness of the light diminishes within the scene.  To
    explain how to set a value for DISTSCALE, consider the following example.
    Say you wanted a full-intensity white lightbulb (i.e. its nominal BGR
    values would be 1 1 1) to shine onto a table.  If the table were, say,
    37 units of distance from the light coordinate, then you'd want to set
    DISTSCALE to 37 in order that the table would be fully illuminated. Thus,
    objects closer to the light that 37 would appear very bright (indeed,
    probably "overexposed") while objects farther than 37 units from the 
    light would become increasingly dimly lit.  RADIUS is the radius of the
    light emitting sphere; 0.0 would be a point light source.  (Note that 
    point light sources are faster to compute.)  Also note that non-zero 
    radius light sources cast penumbral shadows, though to be effective you
    will need to increase the antialias parameters defined by the "A" 
    command.

Now for the actual objects that compose a scene.  You can about a thousand
objects max per scene.  All objects have the same basic properties available
to them.  Specifically, the first portion of the command line for any
object starts with:

@ TEX FUZZ MIRROR IDX TRA_B TRA_G TRA_R  AMB_B AMB_G AMB_R  DIF_B DIF_G DIF_R
    "@" is the object command character (s,q,x,t,r).

    TEX is an integer value that specified what texture function should be
    applied to this object.  Value 0 means no texture (plain, boring evenly
    colored flat surface).  Positive values select from among the supported
    texture functions, as follows:

	Value	Texture function
	-----	----------------
	1: 	Y axis color gradiation
		Compute the color at each point on the surface as a function
		of the point's Y coordinate.  Starting at Y=0, the color
		belnds from red to blue to green and back to red at Y=20.
		The colors repeat evern 20 units in Y.

	3: 	Mottled diffuse
		The brightness of the surface of the object varies to
		form a mottled pattern.  This texture requires some wave
		sources to be defined.

	4:	Wavy surface
		The surface will be rendered as being criss-crossed by
		overlapping waves.  If reflectivity is turned on for the
		object, the reflections will be rippled, etc.

	5:	Brick pattern
		The object will be rendered as if it were carved out of
		bricks.  The brick size is currently hardwired to be
		height=3.0, width=8.0, depth=4.0, mortar thickness=0.5.
		The color of the bricks is determined by the diffuse
		coefficients for the object; the color of the mortar is
		hardwired at BLUE=0.8, GREEN=0.85, RED=0.99.  The bricks
		are aligned with the coordinate system.

	10..19:	Single Wave
		This is like texture 4, except that the surface is rippled
		by only one wave (rather than all of them with texture 4).
		Texture 10 means use the first wave, texture 11 means use
		the second wave, etc. up to 19 for the tenth wave.

	20..29:	Marble
		Render the object as if it were carved out of marble.  The
		marble texture chosen depends on the texture number: texture
		20 uses the first marble defined, texture 21 uses the second
		marble defined, etc.

	40..49:	Wood
		Render the object as if it were carved out of wood.  The
		wood texture chosen depends on the texture number: texture
		20 uses the first wood defined, texture 21 uses the second
		wood defined, etc.

	50..59:	Checkered
		Color the surface of the object according the the chosen
		checkerboard texture.  Texture 50 uses the first defined
		checker pattern, etc.

	60..69:	Fractal
		This isn't a texture per se (in so far as most other
		textures operate by changing the color of surface points of
		the object).  This texture determines what fractal surface
                contours should be applied to this object.  This texture
		type may only be specified for object type X (fractal
		objects). Texture 60 uses the first defined fractal type,
		etc.

	70..79:	Smooth blend
		Render the surface of the object as a blend between the
		objects normal diffuse color, and the specified blend texture
		color.  Texture 70 uses the first defined blend texture, etc.

	80..89:	Snow
		Color the surface of the object by applying the chosen 
	        snowfall texture.  Texture 80 uses the first defined snow 
                texture, etc.

    FUZZ is a pseudo-texture factor 0 to 1 that applies a random fuzz to
    the surface of the object.  This can be used in a number of ways: to
    model soft surfaces like tennis balls; to form imperfectly reflecting
    mirrors, to form translucent (etched) glass, etc.

    MIRROR is a 0 to 1 value where 0 means no specular and mirror
    reflection, and 1 means 100% specular & mirror reflection.

    IDX is the index of refraction for the object.  This is only relevant if
    the transparency for the object is non-zero.

    TRA_B, _G, _R is the transparency of the object in each color band.
    0 means opaque, 1 means 100% transparent.

    AMB_B, _G, _R is the ambient light value for the object, 0 to 1.  0
    means no pseudo-ambient light, 1 means VERY strong ambient light
    (generally not useful so strong -- washes the object out).

    DIF_B, _G, _R is the diffuse reflection values 0 to 1 for the object
    in the color bands.  For example, glass has virtually zero diffuse
    reflection, while chaulk has very high (near 1) diffuse reflection.
    The diffuse coefficients determine the color of the object (in 
    conjunction with the color of the light sources).

From the above, notice that non-rational objects can be created.  For
example, a ball that is 100% transparent AND 100% reflective.

Now onto each object.  The parameters below FOLLOW (appear to the right
of) all of the above property parameters.

s CENTERX CENTERY CENTERZ  RADIUS
    Sphere.  Self-explanetory.

q POSX POSY POSZ  VE_X VE_Y VE_Z  VP_X VP_Y VP_Z
    Parallelogram.
    The position triple defines a corner of the parallelogram.  The
    second and third triple are two vectors that define the two sides of
    the object adjacent to and relative to the defining point.  Here's
    the hard part: the order of the two vectors matters.  To try to put
    it simply, the VE vector is the one on the left when viewed from
    "above," and the VP vector is the one on the right.  In another way,
    the VP vector is clockwise from the VE vector.  If the two vectors
    are reversed, the object will appear invisble.  So you may have to
    experiment by reversing them.  Note that the two vectors do not have
    to be orthogonal.

t POSX POSY POSZ  VE_X VE_Y VE_Z  VP_X VP_Y VP_Z
    Triangle.
    Same as for a parallelegram, except that the VE, VP vectors define
    the two sides of the triangle.

x POSX POSY POSZ  POS1X POS1Y POS1Z  POS2X POS2Y POS2Z
    Fractal.
    This is very much like a triangle, except that whereas the second and
    third set of XYZ values for triangles are relative to the base position
    of the triangle, for a fractal object all three XYZ triples are absolute
    object space positions.

r CENTERX CENTERY CENTERZ VE_X VE_Y VE_Z  VP_X VP_Y VP_Z  MINRAD MAXRAD
    Ring (or annullus).
    Rings are sort of like parallelograms.  The first triple defines the
    center of the ring.  The VE and VP triples radiate from that point
    and define the plane of the ring.  It is undefined as to what
    happens if the two vectors are not orthogonal.  MINRAD is the inside
    radius of the ring (which may be zero, forming a disk); MAXRAD is
    the outside radius of the ring.

The { and } command lines may be placed around any arbitrary set of
object command lines.  This allows RENDER to do optimized ray tracing by
calculating extent spheres around the indicated primitive objects and
then checking ray intersections with the extent sphere rather than
one-by-one with all the inner objects.  Extents may be nested.

 Source file information
 ~~~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~
Source code is kept in its own directory:

	src/
		makefile
		ray.h	    - all global definitaions
		ray.c	    - main module of ray tracer
		val.c	    - current intensity value of an object
		hit.c	    - calculate if an object gets hit by a ray
		tex.c	    - calculate the texture of an object
		ext.c	    - handle extents ({,} commands)
		rnd.c	    - random number table
		mth.c	    - perform vector and matrix math
		fil.c	    - file i/o
		int.c	    - find intersections with objects
		cal.c	    - top level object calculations
		display.cpp - source for display package

